So this is one of the features
that only class components can do.
You literally cannot do these
in function components so
if you need something that has error
boundaries, you must use class components.
That's just one thing to keep in mind.
I'm just emphasizing that because sometime
in the future you're gonna wonder why
doesn't this work and this is why.
We're gonna go implement a lifecycle
method called component did catch.
This is really useful if you expect errors
coming from within your application.
So a good example of this is
what happens if I try and
go to details slash that.
Undefined, undefined, undefined it's just
kind of like doesn't work super well.
And we get a bunch of errors, right?
Or green or something like that,
it just doesn't really know
what to do with itself.
So this is something that
you can actually like handle
with, What's called an error boundary.
I can say, hey,
if there's an error somewhere in here,
don't crash my application.
Just go ahead and catch it and
then do something with it.
So something I've seen apps do is I'll put
one error boundary at the very top level.
So they're like, hey, if an error
happens anywhere in here, let's recover,
let's send the user back to a good state.
Let's not just crash
the application altogether.
So let's go ahead and go do that.
We're gonna make a component
at the top level
called ErrorBoundary, ErrorBoundary.js.
I actually find these
really useful with APIs,
especially if that API is unreliable.
I don't know if you've ever
had an unreliable API before.
If so, I'm sorry, my apologies.
Might have been my fault, I don't know.
But this will help you if sometimes
they come back with incomplete data or
sometimes a 500 or anything like that.
So first of all, I'm gonna say I
mostly took this from the React docs.
So as in copy pasted, so
that's why I'm going to go ahead and
just give them a shout out there.
Import component from react and
we're gonna import link
from react-router-dom.
I wanna say class ErrorBoundary
extends, Component.
Here we're gonna say state=hasError.
And it's gonna be false cuz by default,
it doesn't.
And then we're gonna
have to create a function
called staticGetDerivedStateFromError.
It's a mouthful, I know.
And then here we're gonna
say return hasError true.
So here you can actually I think
you can get at the error object,
if I take a look at this,
might not say, component.
You might actually be able to get at
the error and see what caused the error.
And you can do different
things based on the error.
If you get an API error, go here, if you
get a syntax error, go somewhere else.
I don't really care I'm just
gonna ignore and say like, hey,
if you encounter an error,
just say that you have an error.
And actually probably something good to
do is actually here in componentDidCatch.
Here gonna get the error and
the info about the error.
Here I would log this to Sentry or
Azure Monitor or New Relic, TrackJS,
there's a million of these
error monitoring services.
This is where I would call that, I would
call out to that it's like hey users
are hitting an error here,
do something about that.
Here I'm just gonna say console.error,
the oldest school of error
monitoring is your console.
And you're just gonna say errorBoundary.
Caught an error.
Error info.
Then here I want to say
underneath that render,
If this.state.hasError,
then return,
Whatever you wanna say, right?
This listing has an error and
then we can throw a link in here,
a link to,
Click here to go back to the home page.
So if it has an error render
goes we're super sorry,
click here to go back to the homepage.
Or we can say return this.props.children.
So this is what we were
talking about before.
There's key and another one of those
reserved props name is children.
And the reason for that is if I can
do something like this errorBoundary.
So this, whatever I pass inside of
errorBoundary, this is children, right?
This is what gets passed in the children.
So what I'm saying here is if
I have some sort of error,
do something about it, right, render this.
If I don't have an error, just render
whatever is in the middle of this, right?
So basically,
be invisible if I don't have an error.
Only show up when I have an error,
does that makes sense, all right?
Down here at the bottom,
there is export default, errorBoundary.
So let's go into, Details.
So we're gonna put this inside of details,
so
if there's ever an error inside of
details, we wanna do something about it.
So we're gonna say import
ErrorBoundary from ./ErrorBoundary.
Now, there's a peculiar thing about it.
What you're tempted to do is, okay, I'm
just gonna put ErrorBoundary here, right?
How would a JavaScript error work though?
If I had an error here,
let's just say I have throw newError.
Right, it would never hit here, right?
It would stop there and it would go up.
So actually the ErrorBoundary has to exist
above it in a new component above it.
So I can't just drop it in here.
It'll only catch things in
components underneath it.
We have to have a component
above it that does it.
So an easy way to do that,
Is we would do it here.
So we already have
a higher order component.
This is kinda where you start getting into
weird things where we have multiple nested
higher order components.
Cuz that's exactly what we
just did with error boundary.
It's a component that adds
functionality but doesn't add display,
that's a higher order component.
Which is just a fancy name for
things that don't display.
So what I'm gonna do
is I'm gonna say const
details withRouter = wihtRouter(Details).
Then underneath that, I'm gonna export
default function details with router with,
or whatever you want to do.
We'll just call it WithErrorBoundary.
I want to say return ErrorBoundary
details with router.
Now, could we have put this in here or
something like that?
Yeah, sure, I mean, in theory now if there
was ever something wrong with router,
we could actually catch it here.
But if there's something
wrong with router,
you're gonna have bigger problems
than just an error boundary.
So it doesn't really matter either way.
So I say, however you choose
to export these works for me.
But now we have an error boundary
here with details, actually, so
we have an error in here,
I'm just gonna leave that.
Because let's see what happens when
there's an error inside of our component.
I'm gonna save.
I'm gonna come over here,
but I'd make this an h1.
My CSS strikes again, which is to say
poorly written CSS strikes again.
Make that an h2 and
now you'll see this listing has an error
click here to go back to the homepage.
I was trying no write no CSS and
got a little too clever.
Story of my life, really,
if we're being honest.
So now I can click here, I can go back,
chills, no problem, right?
So let's go back here to details,
let's go back here, delete that.
Refresh the page,
go back to the Luna page.
And now it's just totally transparent,
right?
So now we can just be assured that even
if there's some problem with one of these
components.
No problem at all, it'll work just fine.
So this is actually still gonna try and
render this out.
I think we were too defensive about this.
So let's say for a second, we did this and
like heroes came back undefined,
in fact,
this actually might just do it but,
Cuz we did the default props,
that's still gonna work.
Anyway, we were too defensive of our code,
so it's not going to throw any errors.
I'm not gonna apologize for that [LAUGH].
But if there's ever an error
that came back from the API, or
maybe the API stopped responding, right?
That would be one place that would do it.
But now we can be assured that it's
never going to just crash on the user.
It's never just going to
show them not rendered,
which is what we don't wanna see.
We wanna see it show them something and
allow them to gracefully
recover from an error.